Four schools of thought about AI
1. Thinking humanly
2. Acting humanly
3. Thinking rationally
4. Acting rationally (design of intelligent agent)

Thinking humanly-
This requires figuring out how human thinks
Today, cog sci and artificial intelligence are mostly different fields.

Acting humanly-
Turing test.
Major components of AI from this perspective are:
knowledge, reasoning, language, understanding, learning

Thinking rationally - 
Codify "right thinking" with logic
Several greek schools developed various forms of logic,
notation and rule of derivations for thoughts.
Problems:
Not all knowledge can be expressed with logical notations
Computational blow up

Acting rationally:
Maximize goal achievement given the available infromation
A rational agent is one that acts to achieve the best outcome
This is the line of thought that we will use in this course.


Applications of AI
- Speech recognition, leverage deep neural networks to handle 
speech recognition and natural language understanding.
- Handwriting recognition
- Machine translation, First systems using one-to-one correspondence
completely failed. Tofay, statistical machine translation leverages
vast amounts of available translated corpuses. While there is
still room for improvement, significant progress has been 
made.
- Robotics, awesome progress in robotics over last few years.
- Recommender systems have seen great improvement from AI.
- Email spam filters.
- Face detection and recognition
- AI has also made incredible progress in games (chess, jeopardy, AlphaGo, etc.)
- Autonomous driving
- Many more applications!

Foundation of AI
- Many different people and fields intersect to work with AI.
- Philosophy
Logic, methods of reasoning
Mind as a physical system that operates as a set of rules
Mathematics -
Logic: formal representation and proof
Computation, algorithms
Probability
Economics - 
Formal theory of rational decisions
Combined decision theory and probability theory for decisions with uncertainty
Game theory
Markov decision processes.
Neuroscience -
How brains and computers are similar and different
Psychology - 
Cog psy perceives brain as info processing
Computer Engineering - 
Cares about how to build powerful machines to make AI possible
E.g. self-driving cars are made possible today thanks to advances.
Control theory and cybernetics - 
Design simple optimal agents receiving info from env
Modern theoy designs sys that max obj func over time
Linguistics -
How language and thinking are related

Course roadmap
Rational intelligent agents
search agents
adversarial search/games
Machine learning
Constraint satisfaction problems
Logic
Markov decision processes and reinforcement learning
Application to natural language processing
Application to vision and robotics

Rational intelligent agents -
Agent perceives env and acts upon to achieve some task
Rationality is relative to how to act to max a performance measure
Agent = architecture + program

Search agents - 
Agent work towards a goal
Consider impact of actions on future states
Paths come with different costs and depths
Two kinds, uninformed and informed

Adversarial search: games - 
There is an opponent we can't control
Game v search optimal solution is not a sequence of actions
but a strategy
Tedious and fragile if hard-coding

Machine learning -
Programs that improve with experience

Constraint satisfaction - 
We don't care about the path but about the goal itself

Logical agents-
Logic can be used by the agent to model the world
Inference: given a knowledge base, given a query, output if
knowledge bas entails query

Reinforcement learning
Agent evolves in a stochastic and uncertain environment
and learns from reinforcement or delayed reward. Learning
approaches for decision makinf in situations where outcomes
are stochastic.
Agent continues to plan and learn to affect its environment.
Reinforcement learning agents are driven by maximizing their
rewards on the long run

Applications -
NLP, Vision, robotics, etc.

Summary -
AI is a hardand broad field with high impact
AI systems dont have to model human/nature but can or be inspired by
Rationality is not always possible in complicated environment,
but we will still aim to build rational agents
